
  {
    "title"       : "5 Reasons to Sponsor the Perl Toolchain Summit",
    "authors"     : ["olaf-alders"],
    "date"        : "2024-03-25T18:00:00",
    "tags"        : [],
    "draft"       : false,
    "image"       : "/images/5-reasons-to-sponsor-the-perl-toolchain-summit/summit-group.jpeg",
    "thumbnail"   : "/images/5-reasons-to-sponsor-the-perl-toolchain-summit/summit-group.jpeg",
    "description" : "",
    "categories"  : "community"
  }

Photo Â© Salve J. Nilsen, 2023, CC-BY-NC-4.0

TL;DR [Please read and share the
prospectus for the Perl Toolchain Summit](https://perltoolchainsummit.org/pts2024/PTS2024-Sponsor-Prospectus.pdf).

It's that time of year again. In a few weeks, dozens of Perl hackers will be
meeting in [Lisbon,
Portugal](https://blogs.perl.org/users/book/2024/02/announcing-the-perl-toolchain-summit-in-2024.html)
to hack furiously on the Perl Toolchain. I will be there as well, working on
[MetaCPAN](https://metacpan.org). Most of the other core MetaCPAN developers
will be there as well, as is the case most years. We get lots of work done. I
usually blog about it. To get an idea of what goes on, you can check out [my
2023 Perl Toolchain Summit
report](https://www.olafalders.com/2023/05/01/how-i-spent-my-perl-toolchain-summit-v2023/)
and [Salve J. Nilson's
photos](https://code.foo.no/2023/05/05/perl-toolchain-summit-2023-in-pictures/).

The summit is a great opportunity for your company to get involved and support
the Perl community. Here are 5 reasons why you should sponsor the Perl
Toolchain Summit.

## 1) Synchronous Communication

The developers who maintain CPAN and its associated tools and service are
scattered all across the globe and, more importantly, in different time zones.
Most of us know that it's entirely possible to get things done at our day jobs
while working remotely. It's not always this easy when trying to co-ordinate
the time, efforts and schedules of volunteers. The Perl Toolchain Summit is the
only time of the year when most of these developers are in the same room
together. The event gives them the luxury of synchronous, rather than
asynchronous communication. Imagine walking across the room to talk to someone
rather than waiting for someone who lives across an ocean to find the free time
to respond to a GitHub issue or a chat message. Problems can be solved much
faster when you get so many stakeholders and decision makers in the same room.

## 2) Face Time

We also know that communication can be hard and it doesn't necessarily get
easier when much of it happens by text. Giving the Toolchain developers the
chance to work face to face means they have a greater understanding and
appreciation of whom they are dealing with. The cameraderie which develops at
this event allows the Toolchain developers to communicate freely and well when
they're not all together. I'm amazed at how well everyone gets along for the
part of the year when we're not in the same room. It's a very special group of
people.

## 3) Consensus

Some big decisions require consensus. Consensus requires getting input from
many people. Being able to call a meeting to discuss topic X with all of the
relevant people is kind of a big deal. Past toolchain summits have given us
documents which offer a guide on how to move forward. [The Lancaster
Consensus](https://github.com/Perl-Toolchain-Gang/toolchain-site/blob/master/lancaster-consensus.md)
is such a document.

## 4) Distraction-free Time

Most Open Source developers are juggling a bunch of things in their day to day
lives and hacking on software is just one of those things. Many of us rarely
get more than a few hours in a given week to work distraction-free on something
which interests us. Sometimes we don't even have that luxury. The Toolchain
summit gives developers 3-4 days of time to keep barreling ahead on critical
software. Imagine what you could do with a hobby project when all you had to
worry about was getting up in the morning, having a prepared meal and then
plugging in your laptop and consulting the experts sitting around you? That's
exactly what this event is like. It also has the side effect of increasing the
cadence of a project in the weeks leading up to the Toolchain where everyone
prepares ahead of time, in order to maximize their creativity upon arrival.

## 5) It Keeps the Toolchain Moving Forward

The Perl Toolchain Summit works to ensure that the parts of the Perl Ecosystem
which developers (and businesses) around the world rely on, are cared for.
Some problems are thorny. They require time. They require expertise. They
require help and possibly a shoulder to cry on. If your business relies on
Perl, then it relies on the toolchain. It relies on a healthy and secure
ecosystem. These are critical things, but they're also boring. They're not
flashy new apps. They're not going to get you on the front page of Hacker News.
They are, however, going to allow people and businesses around the world to
carry on with their lives, blissfully unaware of the efforts which are going
into the software which underpins some part of their existence. Sponsoring this
event allows you to support the boring, important parts of Perl.

By now you're probably thinking "shut up and take my money". That's wonderful!
Sponsoring the event is easy. Please [have a look at the
prospectus](https://perltoolchainsummit.org/pts2024/PTS2024-Sponsor-Prospectus.pdf).
It has more information on this event and it has everything you need to get
started as a sponsor. Kindly pass the prospectus along to your friends and
colleagues and together we can work together to keep the Perl Toolchain moving
forward.
